
# Day Two - Kubernetes Architecture

---

In this section we will do a quick whistle stop tour of _Kubernetes_ architecture.

---

## Kubernetes Processes

There is a core set of _Kubernetes_ processes that form the cluster runtime.  These are.

* kube-apiserver
* kube-controller--manager
* kube-scheduler
* kube-proxy
* kubelet



## Kubernetes Concepts

Before describing _Kubernetes Resources_ there is some important conceptual information to cover.

### Labels and Selectors



## Kubernetes Resources

_Resources_ are high level abstractions that contain the declarative state for an infrastructure component.  _Resources_ are published into the _Kubernetes_ API server and it is the responsibility of _Kubernetes_ controllers to bring the cluster into agreement with the declared state.  

There are many different types of _Resources_ available.  The full list of _Resources_ can be found in the [API documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.10/).  The following sections describe just a few of the most important _Resources_.

### Pods



### Deployments



### DaemonSet


### StatefulSet



### Job


### CronJob


### Service


### Ingress


### ConfigMap


### Secret

### PersistentVolume and PersistentVolumeClaim


### NameSpace





## Scratch

This is a brief coverage of the Kubernetes architecture.  Lineks for more depth can nbe found here.

Distinction.  There is the architecture of the Kubernetes daemons / nodes and also the resources that drive the behaviour.  

This will cover more about the former and the resources will be described in more depth in the next section - Kubernetes Manifests.